We've got our title in our price.
It is time to submit this to our back end tickets service.
As a quick reminder, let's take a look at the ticket service itself.
So here is my tickets folder CRC directory routes and inside there is the new file.
This is the route handler that we want to make a request to to create a new ticket.
So we have to make a post request to API tickets and we have to include the title and the price.
If anything is wrong with the title in price that is provided, then our API is going to send back an
error to us automatically.
So let's take a look at how we have made requests from inside of a component in the past.
Now, keep in mind that this is a different kind of request that we are making right now, as opposed
to the initial prop stuff we were discussing just a moment ago.
The get initial prop function, which we were working on inside of our landing page, was all about
fetching some data that is required to show this component on the screen.
So just to render it for the very first time.
But right now, we are talking about making a request from inside of a component itself.
So we had actually created a little helper hook to help us out with this process inside of our hooks
directory.
We've got that use request hook.
So this is a custom hook we put together just to make making a request, handling errors, all that
kind of stuff really easy and straightforward.
When we call the user request, we are going to provide a URL, a method, a body and an on success
callback.
So those are all inputs to the hook.
Then as the output from the hook, we get back a function called due request and a little bit of JS
called ere's the D request right here.
That is a function that we're going to call to actually invoke or run the request.
Ires is a little block of J.
X that's going to capture all the airs that might be coming back from our API and then render them out
as a nice little block of x.
The other thing I want to mention is that the on success callback that we're going to also pass in here
is going to be coupled with the data that we got back from the API request as well.
That's going to become relevant in just a little bit.
So this is the user request.
We're going to use this once again inside of our tickets, new component.
We're going to make sure that we provide the appropriate URL, blah, blah, blah, all that stuff.
And then eventually, after users submits our form, we will call the do request function that we are
returning it from the hook.
So back inside of our component at the very top.
Let's import use request from up to directories.
Books use request.
Then right after all of our state stuff.
We're going to take the due request function and any errors that might have occurred from user request.
And we'll put in some options to the hook itself just to customize the request that we're going to eventually
issue.
The first will put in our URL as we just saw.
We want to make a request to API tickets.
Our method is going to be post and notice that it is lowercase post right here, not all uppercase.
That's because we are really just taking that method right there and looking up the appropriate method
on the Axios library object.
So Axios method right there.
Next up, we have to provide the body.
So this is the data we want to send along.
In this case, it's going to be our title and the price.
And then finally ah, on success callback.
Right now I'm just going to do a console log of how about the data that we get back?
So I'll receive that data which will really be the ticket.
So I'll just call it ticket and I'll console.log the ticket like so.
So there's our hook.
So now we're going to make sure that at some point in time we call that due request function.
We'll also make sure that we display that little block of errors inside of our form as well.
Remember that by default, when our component first is created, Iris is going to be empty.
It is only once we actually make a request that we're going to have that request fail.
That airs is going to contain some JSX.
So we can really show errors inside of all of our JSX down here at all times.
And it's only going to become visible when there actually are some errors.
So we'll just throw an errors right above the button like so.
Next up, we're going to find our form element.
And whenever someone submits this thing, well, we're going to make our request.
They'll put in an on submit.
Handler.
I'm going to make a helper function with a matching name called Simply on Submit.
Then at right above r on blur.
I'll make on submit.
I can receive the event object.
And called Prevent.
Default on it.
And after that, I will call due request.
All right, so that should be it.
This should create an actual ticket on our API.
So let's save this and give it a shot.
I'll flip back over.
I'm going to refresh the page just because sometimes personally for me it feels like next doesn't always
quite capture the refreshes or whenever I save a file.
So I'm just in the habit of refreshing the page anyhow.
I'll go ahead and enter in a title.
So how about first client ticket and a price of 20?
We'll submit that.
And there we go.
There's the console log from the on success callback.
And if I take a look at my network request tab, I should see a request to our tickets endpoint.
It looks like everything is good to go.
Now we can see all the relevant details about the ticket inside of on success.
We're going to need those in just a moment.
But right now, one other thing I want to test out really quickly.
What happens if we provide some invalid inputs?
A very easy, invalid input we could put in here is a negative price.
Remember our request handler checks to make sure that the price provided is greater than zero.
So let's try putting in -20, submitting that.
And I'm told very quickly, price must be greater than zero.
How about if we put in a string of characters?
So like I said inside of that on our callback, we were not really handling the case in which we got
a not a number out of parsing this price.
And I had said that we're going to just really delegate all the validation off to our back end.
So if we try to submit this well, we get the same thing.
Price must be greater than zero, essentially telling the user, Hey, this is supposed to be a number.
We could also take out the title.
And we're told title is required.
I'd say this works pretty well.
Now that we are successfully creating a ticket, we need to decide what we want to do with the user
after the ticket is created.
Let's take a look at that in just a moment.